README.md, before:

# Airflow Faculty Plugin

The *Airflow Faculty Plugin* lets you interact with Faculty services
from [Apache Airflow](https://airflow.apache.org/). Currently, the
only supported mode of interaction is triggering jobs.

## Installation

You can install this plugin from PyPI into the Python environment that
executes the DAG:

```
pip install airflow-faculty-plugin
```

![](images/demo.png)

## Operators

### FacultyJobRunNowOperator

This operator triggers a Faculty job run and waits for an end event
for the job run (such as COMPLETED or ERROR).

Use this operator in your DAG as follows:

```py
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

from airflow.operators.faculty import FacultyJobRunNowOperator

dag = DAG("faculty_job_tutorial")

run_job = FacultyJobRunNowOperator(
    job_id="260938d9-1ed8-47eb-aaf2-a0f9d8830e3a",
    project_id="e88728f6-c197-4f01-bdf2-df3fc92bfe4d",
    polling_period_seconds=10,
    task_id="trigger_job",
    start_date=days_ago(7),
    dag=dag
)
```

The operator accepts the following parameters:

- `job_id`: the ID of the job to trigger. To find the ID, run
   `faculty job list -v` in the project that this job is in.
- `project_id`: the ID of the job to trigger. To find the ID,
   run `echo $FACULTY_PROJECT_ID` in the terminal of a server
   in this project.
- `polling_period_seconds`: The number of seconds between checks for
   whether the job has completed. Use a low number if you expect
   the job to finish quickly, and a high number if the job is
   longer. Defaults to 30s.
- `job_parameter_values`: a dictionary mapping parameter names
   to the values they should take in this run. For instance,
   if the job requires the parameter `NUMBER_ESTIMATORS`, pass in:
   `{"NUMBER_ESTIMATORS": "50"}`
- `client_configuration`: customise how to connect and authenticate
   with the Faculty API.

### Authenticating with Faculty

To connect to Faculty, you must specify both a user to connect as, as
well as the deployment to connect to.  There are two ways to do this.

#### Authenticating via the environment

The simplest method of authenticating with the Faculty API is to
follow the documentation on [initialising
Faculty](https://docs.faculty.ai/user-guide/command_line_interface.html#initialising-faculty)
.

This works well in development mode, or when a single user is using
Airflow. It implies that all the tasks will be run as a single Faculty
Platform user.

#### Passing authentication directly to the task

Alternatively, connection parameters can be passed to each task
directly. This works well when integrated with Airflow
[variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/concepts.html#variables).

First, retrieve a client ID and secret for your user by following
[these
instructions](https://docs.faculty.ai/user-guide/my-account.html#cli-credentials). Then,
define the `faculty_client_id` and `faculty_client_secret` variables
via the Airflow console:

![](images/airflow-variables.png)

These variables can then be retrieved at runtime and passed to the
task definition:

``` py
from airflow import DAG

from airflow.operators.faculty import FacultyJobRunNowOperator
from airflow.models import Variable
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

run_job = FacultyJobRunNowOperator(
    job_id="4ae38631-eb41-4001-a5ce-527a43a7d7ce",
    project_id="f3100098-fbdf-4aff-80b8-abbb03181354",
    polling_period_seconds=10,
    task_id="trigger_job",
    start_date=days_ago(7),
    client_configuration={
        "client_id": Variable.get("faculty_client_id"),
        "client_secret": Variable.get("faculty_client_secret"),
        "domain": "services.cloud.my.faculty.ai",
    },
    dag=dag
)
```

Here, `domain` should be `services.URL`, where `URL` is the base URL
of your Faculty deployment.

Thus, for instance, if the URL of your Faculty deployment is
`cloud.my.faculty.ai`, the value of `domain` should be
`services.cloud.my.faculty.ai`.

Commit message:

Add instructions on installing the plugin in Composer to the README

README.md, after:

# Airflow Faculty Plugin

The *Airflow Faculty Plugin* lets you interact with Faculty services
from [Apache Airflow](https://airflow.apache.org/). Currently, the
only supported mode of interaction is triggering jobs.

## Installation

You can install this plugin from PyPI into the Python environment that
executes the DAG:

```
pip install airflow-faculty-plugin
```

![](images/demo.png)

To install this plugin on [Google Cloud
Composer](https://cloud.google.com/composer/docs), go to the *PyPI
packages tab* in the Composer environment details page and enter the
package name. You do *not* need to add the package to the `plugins/`
folder in the cloud storage bucket.

![](images/composer-install.png)

## Operators

### FacultyJobRunNowOperator

This operator triggers a Faculty job run and waits for an end event
for the job run (such as COMPLETED or ERROR).

Use this operator in your DAG as follows:

```py
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

from airflow.operators.faculty import FacultyJobRunNowOperator

dag = DAG("faculty_job_tutorial")

run_job = FacultyJobRunNowOperator(
    job_id="260938d9-1ed8-47eb-aaf2-a0f9d8830e3a",
    project_id="e88728f6-c197-4f01-bdf2-df3fc92bfe4d",
    polling_period_seconds=10,
    task_id="trigger_job",
    start_date=days_ago(7),
    dag=dag
)
```

The operator accepts the following parameters:

- `job_id`: the ID of the job to trigger. To find the ID, run
   `faculty job list -v` in the project that this job is in.
- `project_id`: the ID of the job to trigger. To find the ID,
   run `echo $FACULTY_PROJECT_ID` in the terminal of a server
   in this project.
- `polling_period_seconds`: The number of seconds between checks for
   whether the job has completed. Use a low number if you expect
   the job to finish quickly, and a high number if the job is
   longer. Defaults to 30s.
- `job_parameter_values`: a dictionary mapping parameter names
   to the values they should take in this run. For instance,
   if the job requires the parameter `NUMBER_ESTIMATORS`, pass in:
   `{"NUMBER_ESTIMATORS": "50"}`
- `client_configuration`: customise how to connect and authenticate
   with the Faculty API.

### Authenticating with Faculty

To connect to Faculty, you must specify both a user to connect as, as
well as the deployment to connect to.  There are two ways to do this.

#### Authenticating via the environment

The simplest method of authenticating with the Faculty API is to
follow the documentation on [initialising
Faculty](https://docs.faculty.ai/user-guide/command_line_interface.html#initialising-faculty)
.

This works well in development mode, or when a single user is using
Airflow. It implies that all the tasks will be run as a single Faculty
Platform user.

#### Passing authentication directly to the task

Alternatively, connection parameters can be passed to each task
directly. This works well when integrated with Airflow
[variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/concepts.html#variables).

First, retrieve a client ID and secret for your user by following
[these
instructions](https://docs.faculty.ai/user-guide/my-account.html#cli-credentials). Then,
define the `faculty_client_id` and `faculty_client_secret` variables
via the Airflow console:

![](images/airflow-variables.png)

These variables can then be retrieved at runtime and passed to the
task definition:

``` py
from airflow import DAG

from airflow.operators.faculty import FacultyJobRunNowOperator
from airflow.models import Variable
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

run_job = FacultyJobRunNowOperator(
    job_id="4ae38631-eb41-4001-a5ce-527a43a7d7ce",
    project_id="f3100098-fbdf-4aff-80b8-abbb03181354",
    polling_period_seconds=10,
    task_id="trigger_job",
    start_date=days_ago(7),
    client_configuration={
        "client_id": Variable.get("faculty_client_id"),
        "client_secret": Variable.get("faculty_client_secret"),
        "domain": "services.cloud.my.faculty.ai",
    },
    dag=dag
)
```

Here, `domain` should be `services.URL`, where `URL` is the base URL
of your Faculty deployment.

Thus, for instance, if the URL of your Faculty deployment is
`cloud.my.faculty.ai`, the value of `domain` should be
`services.cloud.my.faculty.ai`.
